.TH QLRUN 1 "QLite V1.0"
.SH NAME
qlrun \- daemon for the QLite queueing system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qlrun 
.I [-h] [-d] [-s spooldir] [-c cluster] [-n maxnice] [-i pinum] [-t timelimit] [-p port] [-l lockhost]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Qlrun
runs as a daemon looking for jobs to be run on a farm machine.
Typically it is just run as
.sp
.ce
qlrun 
.sp
It is run on each farm machine. If a machine has two processors then
typically it will be run twice. To set up two queues one with higher
priority than another, one could do:
.sp
.ce
qlrun -c 1 -n  0 -p 1
.ce
qlrun -c 2 -n 19 -p 2
.sp
This will create one queue for the machine as part of cluster 1 with a
process instance number of 1 which runs at the nice level of the
requesting job and a second queue with a process instance number of 2
which never runs at higher than nice 19.

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.B -c cluster
Specify a cluster number. Machines can be divided into separate
clusters. See
.I QLite(1)
for details.
.sp
.B -d
Run in interactive debug mode rather than as a daemon
.sp
.B -h
Print a help message.
.sp
.B -i pinum
Specify the process instance number. By default this is 1. This is
used if you have more than one daemon running on the same machine and
is used by 
.I qllist(1)
to identify running jobs. Simply set to 2, 3, 4, etc. for further
instances of the daemon running on the machine. Entries for each
instance number must appear in
.B $(QLSPOOLDIR)/.machinelist
See
.I QLite(1)
for details.
.sp
.B -l lockhost
Specify the host running the lock daemon. See
.I QLite(1)
for details.
.sp
.B -n maxnice
Specify a maximum allowed nice level for jobs run by the daemon. By
default this is 0. When jobs are submitted, they request a default
nice level of 10 (though this can be overridden by the -n option to
.I qlsubmit(1)
). If
.I maxnice
is set to 19 for example, then the job will run at a nice level of 19
instead whatever the request from
.I qlsubmit(1)

Similarly if 
.I maxnice 
has been set at 10, a job submitted with a request for a
nice level of 19 will run at that nice level while once submitted
requesting a nice level of 5 will still run at a nice level of 10.
.sp
.B -p portnum
Specify the port number of the lock daemon. See
.I QLite(1)
for details.
.sp
.B -s spooldir
Specify a spool directory rather than the compile time default
(usually /usr/local/spool/qlite)
.sp
.B -t timelimit
Specify a timelimit (in minutes) for jobs running on this queue. If
this limit is exceeded, then the job will be terminated and an EMail
message will be sent to the submitter's username.
.SH AUTHOR
Andrew C.R. Martin (andrew@bioinf.org.uk)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
QLite(1), qlsubmit(1), qllist(1), qlshutdown(1), qllockd(1), qlsuspend(1)
.SH BUGS
None known :-) It would be nice to make it possible to specify
an EMail address for messages when allocated CPU time has been
exceeded rather than guessing the address.

