.TH QLSHUTDOWN 1 "QLite V1.0"
.SH NAME
qlshutdown \- Shut down the qlrun daemon in the QLite queueing system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qlshutdown 
.I [-h] [-w] [-s spooldir] [-c cluster] [node]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Qlshutdown
creates a file in the spool directory for the appropriate cluster
which tells the 
.I qlrun(1) 
daemon on a specified node to exit when it has finished processing the
current job. If 
.I node
is not specified, then the node from which the command is issued is
assumed. The daemon always waits for the currently running job to
finish before it shuts down.
.B This command must be run as root.
Typically it is just run as
.sp
.ce
qlshutdown 
.sp
or, to shutdown the daemon on a different node as
.sp
.ce
qlshutdown sapc122
.sp
Either the short node name or the fully qualified domain name may be
used. The numeric IP address may not be used.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.B -h
Print a help message.
.sp
.B -w
This program waits until the daemon has been shut down. This is useful
in the shutdown script for a computer.
.sp
.B -s spooldir
Specify a spool directory rather than the compile time default
(usually /usr/local/spool/qlite). Note that the default may also be
overridden using the 
.I QLSPOOLDIR 
environment variable. Anything
specified on the command line will override the environment variable. 
.sp
.B -c cluster
Specify a cluster number. Machines can be divided into separate
clusters. See
.I QLite(1)
for details. Only jobs in the queue for that cluster will be listed.
By default, all jobs in all clusters are listed.
.sp
.B node
Shut down the daemon on the specified node. If no node is specified,
then the daemon on this node is shutdown. Note that one can shut
down a daemon on a node to which one does not have root access.
.sp
.SH AUTHOR
Andrew C.R. Martin (andrew@bioinf.org.uk)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
QLite(1), qlrun(1), qllist(1), qlsubmit(1), qllockd(1), qlsuspend(1)
.SH BUGS
Actually this is a feature... One can shutdown the daemon on a node to
which one does not have root access if one has root access on one of
the other nodes which shares the spool directory. It is assumed that
all machines are being used in a trusted environment and that a root
user on one machine will also be a root user on every other machine
where the spool directory is mounted.


