.TH QLSUBMIT 1 "QLite V1.0"
.SH NAME
qlsubmit \- Submit a job for processing by the QLite queueing system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qlsubmit 
.I [-h] [-d] [-q] [-s spooldir] [-c cluster] [-n nice] jobfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Qlsubmit
queues a job to be run by the 
.I qlrun(1) 
daemon on one of the farm machines.
Typically it is just run as
.sp
.ce
qlsubmit jobfile
.sp
where 
.I jobfile
is a script file with commands to be executed.
.B NOTE!
This script file may not contain commands that are aliases - you
must use the full path/command name.

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.B -h
Print a help message.
.sp
.B -d
Delete the script file once it has been queued.
.sp
.B -q
Run quietly - do not report the job number.
.sp
.B -s spooldir
Specify a spool directory rather than the compile time default
(usually /usr/local/spool/qlite). Note that the default may also be
overridden using the 
.I QLSPOOLDIR 
environment variable. Anything
specified on the command line will override the environment variable. 
.sp
.B -c cluster
Specify a cluster number. Machines can be divided into separate
clusters. See
.I QLite(1)
for details. Note that the default may also be
overridden using the 
.I QLCLUSTER 
environment variable. Anything
specified on the command line will override the environment variable. 
.sp
.B -n nice
Specify a requested nice level for this job. By
default this is 10. Note that the 
.I qlrun(1)
daemon may restrict the nice level. For example
if 
.I qlrun(1)
allows a maximum nice of 10, a job submitted with a request for a
nice level of 19 will run at that nice level, while once submitted
requesting a nice level of 5 will still run at a nice level of 10.
.SH AUTHOR
Andrew C.R. Martin (andrew@bioinf.org.uk)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
QLite(1), qlrun(1), qllist(1), qlshutdown(1), qllockd(1), qlsuspend(1)
.SH BUGS
None known :-) It would be nice to have a way of limiting the
CPU time and optionally of mailing the submitter when a job
has finished or been killed as a result of over-running
allocated CPU time. The script file may not contain commands that
are aliases (e.g. if you had an alias that ran a program by
specifying some long path and the name of the program it would
not work). This is a 'feature' of the shell I guess... Another feature
is that you may only submit jobs from a machine that is in the cluster
(i.e. it is listed in the .machinelist file). This is done as a 
security measure,



